Raid toolkit updates (#150)
amdigital-co-uk/docs-playbook: docs/Ways-of-Working/Toolkit/RAID.md

title: RAID
tags: 
 - draft
 - RAID
 - Default
---

## Introduction

- RAID capture, management and mitigation is a continuous process throughout the entire problem lifecycle. 
- If you are unsure of how to approach RAID capture, management and mitigation, the following guide documents a default approach.
- This may be a useful starting point for delivery teams, and as competency grows, teams are encouraged to experiment with, define and evolve their own processes and procedures whilst operating within the stipulated minimum viable guardrails.
- The guidance demonstrates several options for managing RAID so that teams can find what works best for them. If a team is unsure where to start they are encouraged to arrange a short session with a RAID SME who, through discussion, can make recommendations on the best approach for the team.

> ## RAID SME's

Reviewer: More out of my curiosity, do we have the term SME defined anywhere?
I don't know what it means but I'm guessing from the context "Subject Matter Expert"?

- Tailor the RAID log for the audience: this may entail extracting key RAID items and adding them to a PowerPoint deck.  Key items can be discussed individually or rolled up to form key RAID themes to discuss with stakeholders (see example below).
- Be mindful of the level at which you're communicating at, and tailor the level of detail to suit the audience
![RAID AMPFlow Workflow](./assets/raid-item-rollup.png)

## When to Report RAID

Define requirements for reporting RAID with your delivery team and stakeholders and continuously monitor and review this as things change 
- **Project initiation:** during the initial planning phase, identify and document all potential RAID elements to establish a baseline
- **Sprint planning:** before each sprint, review and update the RAID log to ensure any new items are captured and addressed
- **Daily standups:** briefly mention any critical RAID updates that might impact daily work to keep the team informed 
- **Sprint reviews / Retrospectives:** at the end of each sprint, review the RAID log to discuss what was resolved, what new items were added, and what ongoing items need further attention 

> - **ad hoc reporting:** anytime a significant RAID item emerges, update the RAID log and communicate it to the team promptly to mitigate impacts   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Ad hoc reporting:** anytime a significant RAID item emerges, update the RAID log and communicate it to the team promptly to mitigate impacts   
```

Minor grammatical issue, but might want to use a capital A here for consistency

## What to Report

??? info "Risks"

    - **Description:** Clearly describe the potential problem

>     - **Impact Rating:** Rate the risk based on how severe the impact would be if the risk materializes

Reviewer: What measurement do we use for impact?

Author: 1-5 in AzDo currently

    - **Impact Description:** Explain the potential impact on the project if the risk materializes

>     - **Likelihood Rating:** Assess the likelihood of the risk occurring. (how to determine likelihood https://adammatthewdigital.sharepoint.com/:fl:/g/contentstorage/CSP_d1c54a5b-af14-4f8c-8476-48e3aab13057/Edu-m0SIjT1ImaR9g33SlbMBLDlnaEwLHlu0q0rj_IOiiQ?e=idqG91&nav=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%3D%3D)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Likelihood Rating:** Assess the likelihood of the risk occurring. [Determine Likelihood Guidance](https://adammatthewdigital.sharepoint.com/:fl:/g/contentstorage/CSP_d1c54a5b-af14-4f8c-8476-48e3aab13057/Edu-m0SIjT1ImaR9g33SlbMBLDlnaEwLHlu0q0rj_IOiiQ?e=idqG91&nav=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%3D%3D)
```

Wrapping this link in a term would improve readability

    - **Mitigation Plan:** Outline steps to mitigate the risk
    - **Owner:** Assign responsibility for managing the risk

??? info "Assumptions"

    - **Description:** Document assumptions made during project planning
    - **Rationale:** Explain why these assumptions are considered valid
    - **Impact:** Describe the impact if the assumptions prove incorrect
    - **Impact Rating:** Rate the risk based on how severe the impact would be if the assumption is incorrect
    - **Confidence Level Rating:** Indicate the degree of certainty associated with the accuracy or likelihood of a RAID item, helping prioritise actions and focus resources effectively
    - **Validation:** Outline steps to validate the assumptions during the project

??? info "Issues"

    - **Description:** Identify tasks or components that depend on each other

>     - **Impact:** Explain how dependencies affect the project timeline and milestones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Impact:** Explain how issues affect the project timeline and milestones
```

Assume this should be issues?

>     - **Impact Rating:** Rate the risk based on how severe the impact would be if the dependency cannot be resolved or removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Impact Rating:** Rate the risk based on how severe the impact would be if the issue cannot be resolved or removed
```
